Data in Tables and Intro to SQL (#1)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-2: intro-to-sql/sql-setup.md

### !end-callout

## Dropping Tables

To delete, or _drop_ a table by name, observe the following syntax, where `example_table_name` is the table name.

```sql
DROP TABLE example_table_name;
```

When successful, this command should give us the feedback `DROP TABLE`. After listing all tables with `\dt`, we should confirm that our deleted table is not there.

## Dropping Databases

We can _drop_ (delete) a whole database using this command, where `db_name` is the name of the database to drop.

```sql
DROP DATABASE db_name;
```

### !callout-success

## Try It: Drop a Table and Database

If this is your first time going through this lesson, try to drop a table. Then, list the tables using `\dt` to confirm.

### !end-callout

### !callout-danger

## Dropped Databases are Irrecoverable

We cannot undo dropping a database. We will practice dropping databases and tables on our local machines for practice because there are fewer consequences for lost data. However, dropping databases is undoable, so exercise caution.

### !end-callout

## Debugging Creating/Dropping Databases and Tables

> | Error Description                             | What It Could Mean                                                                                       |

Reviewer: adjust the left column width
```suggestion
| <div style="width:210px;">Error Description</div>                             | What It Could Mean                                                                                       |
```

| --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ERROR: table "example_table" does not exist` | Check if there is a table in the connected database with the name `example_table` and check for spelling.  You can use `\dt` to list the tables in the connected database. |
| `FATAL: database "example_db" does not exist` | Check databases with `\l`                                                                                         |
| `ERROR: syntax error at or near "COMMAND"`    | Some statement has incorrect syntax. **Check that the statement ends with a semicolon (`;`)**.           |

> 

Reviewer: Whenever I've introduced a student to psql, they often forget the semicolon. That's listed in one of the entries, but the main way I see it is that psql just sits there waiting for further input. But so long as they haven't typed any part of another command, they can just type `;` to complete the prior command. Maybe incclude that in some form?

```suggestion
| `Nothing happens when I try to run a command`    | Most likely there is a semicolon missing, and the prompt is waiting for you to keep typing. Try just entering `;` on its own.           |

```

## Random Debugging

Here is an out-of-context list of debugging strategies that could come up during this lesson, or any SQL lesson.

- Restart Postgres with `$ brew services restart postgres`
  - This is a great default debugging strategy if there is an error about "connecting" to Postgres
- Restart the machine
  - This is another great way to restart Postgres
- List users with `\du`
  - This has information on user names, roles (permissions), and groups
- Copy and paste error messages and search on the Internet frequently, and specify macOS
  - Postgres is 30 years old; there is a lot of great advice out there!

## Summary: Get to an Empty Database and Table

<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: checkbox
* id: 3e22effd-b66f-4b6a-ad89-20bed46072b5
* title: SQL Setup
##### !question

While doing the SQL setup for the first time, use this checklist to make sure you tried everything. Submit this question when all tasks are finished.

##### !end-question
##### !options

> * Installed PostgreSQL
> * Opened the Postgres terminal as user `postgres` with `$ psql -U postgres`

Reviewer: change tense to match the rest of the list

```suggestion
* Install PostgreSQL
* Open the Postgres terminal as user `postgres` with `$ psql -U postgres`
```

* List all databases with `\l`
* Create a database with `CREATE DATABASE db_name;`
* Connect to a database with `\c db_name`
* List all tables in the connected db with `\dt`
* Create a table with `CREATE TABLE table_name ( ... );`
* Drop a table

##### !end-options
##### !answer

> * Installed PostgreSQL
> * Opened the Postgres terminal as user `postgres` with `$ psql -U postgres`

Reviewer: needs to match the list
```suggestion
* Install PostgreSQL
* Open the Postgres terminal as user `postgres` with `$ psql -U postgres`
```
